Expand and improve Client docs (#2602)
strapi/documentation: docusaurus/docs/cms/api/client.md

</script>
```

The `baseURL` must include the protocol (`http` or `https`). An invalid URL will throw an error `StrapiInitializationError`.

### Authentication

> The Strapi Client currently only supports API tokens as an authentication method, to access protected resources in your Strapi back end.

Author: @innerdvations I tweaked this but I'm not actually sure I'm right; I remember JS adding stuff for U&P now but not sure if was enabling for future or actually there

> The Strapi Client currently only supports API tokens as an authentication method, to access protected resources in your Strapi back end.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Strapi Client currently only supports [API tokens](/cms/features/api-tokens) as an authentication method, to access protected resources in your Strapi back end.
```

If the content is validated by devs, it's better to add a link to the related docs (we try to cross-reference docs as much as possible 🤓 ).

```

This allows your requests to include the necessary authentication credentials automatically.

> If the token is invalid or missing, the client will throw an error during initialization `StrapiValidationError`.

Author: One for @jhoward1994

> If the token is invalid or missing, the client will throw an error during initialization `StrapiValidationError`.

Reviewer 2: `StrapiValidationError` is an error in the client codebase not the strapi monorepo, which is why it's not on that page. I think it's fine to leave this as it is

await homepage.delete();
```

### Working with files

The Strapi Client provides access to the [Media Library](/cms/features/media-library) via the `files` property. This allows you to retrieve and manage file metadata without directly interacting with the REST API.

The following methods are available for working with files. Click on the method name in the  table to jump to the corresponding section with more details and examples:

| Method | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| [`find(params?)`](#find) | Retrieves a list of file metadata based on optional query parameters |
| [`findOne(fileId)`](#findone) | Retrieves the metadata for a single file by its ID |
| [`update(fileId, fileInfo)`](#update) | Updates metadata for an existing file |

> | [`upload(type, options)`](#upload) | Uploads a file, specifying:<ul><li>`type` which can be `file`, `fileContentBuffer`, or `fileBlob`</li><li>and an additional `options` object</li></ul> |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [`upload(file, options)`](#upload) | Uploads a file (Blob or Buffer) with an optional `options` object for metadata |
```

  },
  sort: ['name:asc'], // Sort by name in ascending order
});
```

#### `findOne` {#findone}

The `strapi.client.files.findOne()` method retrieves the metadata for a single file by its id.

The method can be used as follows:

```js
// Initialize the client
const client = strapi({
  baseURL: 'http://localhost:1337/api',
  auth: 'your-api-token',
});

// Find file metadata by ID
const file = await client.files.findOne(1);
console.log(file.name);
console.log(file.url); 
console.log(file.mime); // The file MIME type
```

#### `update`

> The `strapi.client.files.findOne()` method updates metadata for an existing filei, accepting 2 parameters, the `fileId`, and an object containing options such as the name, alternative text, and caption for the media.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `strapi.client.files.update()` method updates metadata for an existing file, accepting 2 parameters, the `fileId`, and an object containing options such as the name, alternative text, and caption for the media.
```

  console.error('Blob upload failed:', error);
}
```

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="node-buffer" label="Uploading a Buffer">

```js
import { readFile } from 'fs/promises';

const client = strapi({ baseURL: 'http://localhost:1337/api' });

const filePath = './image.png';
const fileContentBuffer = await readFile(filePath);

try {
  const result = await client.files.upload(fileContentBuffer, {
    filename: 'image.png',
    mimetype: 'image/png',
    fileInfo: {
      name: 'Image uploaded as Buffer',
      alternativeText: 'Uploaded from Node.js Buffer',
      caption: 'Example upload',
    },
  });
  console.log('Buffer upload successful:', result);
} catch (error) {
  console.error('Buffer upload failed:', error);
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

##### Response Structure

The `strapi.client.files.upload()` method returns an array of file objects, each with fields such as:

```json
{
  "id": 1,
  "name": "image.png",
  "alternativeText": "Uploaded from Node.js Buffer",
  "caption": "Example upload",
  "mime": "image/png",
  "url": "/uploads/image.png",
  "size": 12345,
  "createdAt": "2025-07-23T12:34:56.789Z",
  "updatedAt": "2025-07-23T12:34:56.789Z"
}
```

> :::note Additional Response Fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note Additional response fields
```
